Pd 175 core u4 improve certificate articles (#1876)
truenas/documentation: content/CORE/CORETutorials/SystemConfiguration/CreatingCAsandCertificates/CreatingCertificateAuthorities.md

{{< toc >}}

TrueNAS can act as a certificate authority (CA). 
When encrypting SSL or TLS connections to the TrueNAS system, you can import an existing CA or create a CA and certificate on the TrueNAS system. 
The certificate appears on the dropdown menus for services that support SSL or TLS. 

Go to **System > CAs** and click **ADD**. Enter a name for the CA, then choose the type from the **Type** dropdown list of three, **Internal CA**, **Intermediate CA**, or **Import CA**. The process to add a CA for each type is slightly different.

## Creating CA

A CA must exist in CORE to add an Intermediate CA. This can be an internal or imported CA.

To create a CA:

1. Enter or select the **Identifier and Type** setting options.
   
   ![AddInternalCAIdentTypeNoProfile](/images/CORE/13.0/AddInternalCAIdentTypeNoProfile.png "Add Internal CA Name and Type")

   a. Enter a name for this CA.
   b. Select **Internal CA** from the **Type** dropdown list to create an internal certificate. 
      Select **Intermediate CA** to create an intermediate certificate. This displays the **Signing Certificate Authority** field in **Certificate Options**.

> 2. Select an option from the **Profiles** dropdown list. 
>    A profile for the CA auto-fills options like **Key Type**, **Key Length**, **Digest Algorithm**. Otherwise, you must set options manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select an option from the **Profiles** dropdown list. 
   A profile for the CA auto-fills options like **Key Type**, **Key Length**, and **Digest Algorithm**. Otherwise, you must set options manually.
```

>    To add an OpenVPN Root CA, select **OpenVPN Root CA**. 
>    The configuration form populates with default settings, enables **Basic Constraints**, **Authority Key Identifier**, **Extended Key Usage**, and **Key Usage**, and set the options for each extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To add an OpenVPN Root CA, select **OpenVPN Root CA**. 
   The configuration form populates with default settings, enables **Basic Constraints**, **Authority Key Identifier**, **Extended Key Usage**, and **Key Usage**, and sets the options for each extension.
```

   ![AddInternalCAOpenVPNRootProfile](/images/CORE/13.0/AddInternalCAOpenVPNRootProfile.png "Add OpenVPN Root CA Profile")
   

>    To add CA certificate select **CA**. 
>    The configuration form populates with default settings, enables **Basic Constraints**, **Authority Key Identifier**, **Extended Key Usage**, and **Key Usage**, and set the options for each extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To add a CA certificate, select **CA**. 
   The configuration form populates with default settings, enables **Basic Constraints**, **Authority Key Identifier**, **Extended Key Usage**, and **Key Usage**, and sets each extension's options.
```

Author: I'll adjust this, we don't use possessive case 's in articles.

      Entering **0** allows a single additional certificate to follow in the certificate path. Then select the extension(s) to use.
      
      Select an option from the **Basic Constraints Config** dropdown list. Select **CA** to use a certificate authority. 
      Selecting **Critical Extension** can result in rejection of the certificate by the system that is using the certificate if that system does not recognize the extension.

   b. Select **Enable**, then enter the extensions for **Authority Key Identifier**.

      Enabling **Authority Key Config** adds the authority key identifier extension which provides a means of identifying the public key corresponding to the private key used to sign the certificate. Used when an issue has multiple signing keys, possibly due to multiple concurrent key pairs or due to changeover. Options are **Authority Cert Issuer** or **Critical Extension**.

   c. Select **Enable**, then enter the extensions for **Extended Key Usage**. Select one or more usages for the public key from the **Usages** dropdown list.
      TrueNAS uses Extended Key Usage for end-entity certificates.
    

>      Enable **Critical Extension** if you want to identify this extension as critical for the certificate. 
>      Do not enable **Critical Extension** if **Usages** contains **ANY_EXTENDED_KEY_USAGE**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Enable **Critical Extension** to identify this extension as critical for the certificate. 
     Do not enable **Critical Extension** if **Usages** contains **ANY_EXTENDED_KEY_USAGE**.
```
